>> Jem Young: We just got
our Express app written.
There was a missing parentheses which I
have subtly added in there via text edit,
threw it in there.
But now, let's go ahead and
run that, run that app.
So I'm going to switch over and
I can say node app.js.
Hey, it's running, cool.
Now what?
Let's go to the website.
And jemisbest.com,
refresh that, wait a second.
Not doing anything, but
the app is running.
What's going on now?
>> Speaker 2: You need to
run it on the correct port?
>> Jem Young: Yes, we do, but
the default port is port 80.
But I wonder if we can do port 3000.
Now it's working.
But that's not convenient.
We cann't build an app and say,
hey, go to jemis.thebest or
jemisthebest, but
you gotta go to port 3000.
Cuz my mom's gonna be like, what's a port?
And that doesn't work.
So we need to somehow direct
that traffic to port 80.
Cuz we got the domain, we got the IP,
we've got Nginx running, but
we still need to connect Nginx to Express.
So this what we're gonna do next,
we're gonna tune Nginx so
that it points to the correct port.
To that we're gonna use directives,
that weird word I used earlier.
We're gonna use the proxy_pass directive.
And all that means is
we're gonna proxy pass,
we're going to proxy all the traffic
from that's going to / which is
the general root domain to the actual
Node server on a different port.
So let's go and do that.
And this change is fairly short.
We're going to edit that
Nginx configuration again.
So sudo vi
/etc/nginx/sites-available/default.
And then we're going to scroll
down to that location directive,
delete out everything in there,
and then proxy_pass into it.
>> Speaker 2: You put the private
key here, or the private key?
Do you put in, for the password,
is it the one that you, for the user?
>> Jem Young: It's whatever you set when
you created that user, that sudo user.
>> Speaker 3: Sorry, under what section?
>> Jem Young: In the location directive.
So scroll down and it'll have
something like, actually, let me.
I'll just-
>> Speaker 3: Files?
>> Jem Young: Yeah, just undo.
So Undo, so scroll down to here.
And then just delete these files.
So I'm going to use double d to delete,
then switch to insert mode and tab in.
I'm going to say proxy_pass.
So with this proxy_pass directive,
all we're telling it is, hey,
any request that comes in to / or,
well, we only have one right now.
So any request that comes in,
let's just forward that request and
let our Node application handle it,
and on a different port.
And this way,
we don't have to change ports.
We don't have to run it on port 80 or
anything like that.
We can run on infinite ports on,
well, not infinite ports,
not infinite ports, and the Nginx
knows exactly where they're handled.
And the benefit of doing something
like this is I can run six different
applications and
they all run on a different port
they're all running at the same time.
And I can take one application down, bring
another one up, I can route to a database.
Most of what we're doing is gonna
be with the proxy_pass directive,
at least for today.
>> Jem Young: All right.
>> Jem Young: Oops, and
I forgot to restart the server.
So, let's write quit out of here.
And we'll say,
sudo service nginx reload, or
restart, I don't think it matters, cool.
If you have an error, the good thing about
Nginx is if you have an error in your
configuration, it will throw
an error before it lets you restart.
So that way your web server keeps up and
running, it's pretty nice.
And let's test to make
sure I did that correctly.
Oops, forgot to start my app back up.
>> Jem Young: Nice.
So now I have my domain connected to my
Express application running on port 80.
Not bad.
If you're running into troubles,
don't forget to restart Nginx.
Don't forget to start your
Node application backup.
And that's a pain, so
we're gonna figure out how to get
around restarting your application.
>> Speaker 3: Did you
mention what service is?
Like the service command,
what does that do?
>> Jem Young: No, I didn't.
And thanks for asking.
Service is the highest-level command for
any sort of daemon running
in the background.
Not everything runs on a service.
Tomorrow we're gonna use
something called systemctl,
which is a way of managing your services,
but at a lower layer.
But services is a nice wrapper,
it's much cleaner.
The interface we'll see
tomorrow is more advanced.
And generally,
I try to pick the simplest thing possible.
But that's what services is.
You can do lots of things with services.
I can register my Node application as a
service that's running in the background.
It's probably not the best
way to manage it.
But something like Nginx that
you always want running,
we just use a services command.
But, good question.
I'm surprised this is the first one we've
gotten on any sort of commands I've
been running.
It's okay.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: In the nginx folder, there
is a folder called sites enabled as well.
What's the difference between enabled and
available sites?
>> Jem Young: Actually,
one sym links to the other.
I want to say, I think sites
available sym links to sites enabled.
You can manage different
configurations that way.
So you can change Nginx configurations
without changing what's actually running.
And then whenever you want it to be
available, you can just copy it over.
And that's one way of doing it.
There's a, I'm gonna say it,
I'm gonna try this.
nginx -t, yeah.
So you can run the nginx -t, and
that runs over your configuration and
validates that everything makes sense.
In fact, we even have some things
in here that don't make sense,
which is weird because it's
the default configuration.
But that's what the sites enabled
versus sites available is.
And another thing is you generally
don't modify your default.
You make it per site.
So I'd say,
jemisthe.best configuration, and
then have an Nginx configuration for that.
And then I merge them
all together into one.
But because we're only
doing one web server,
and it's the simplest example,
that's the best practice.
Good question, though.
Surprised that didn't come up either.
You all are sharp.
Okay, everybody's website up and running,
we get node back up and running.
You're connected.
All right, so now we've successfully
made a web application.
Nice job, everyone.
It was a journey to get here,
but we did it together.
That's what's important.